# spotfinder
web application for visualization of coherent bremsstrahlung beam properties

One commonly used method for producing beams of high-energy photons (gamma rays) is to accelerate electrons to high energy and pass them through a material target. The radiation emitted by the electrons, known as bremsstrahlung, is normally either circularly polarized (if the electrons are longitudinally polarized) or unpolarized. A third option, linear polarization, is also available if the target ("radiator") is an oriented crystal. The radiation of a photon from a high-energy electron passing through a crystal is known as "coherent bremsstrahlung", which has been extensively studied by theoretically and experimentally [1-5]. At sufficiently high electron energies, a coherent bremsstrahlung beam can be produced with nearly ideal properties: high intensity, monochromatic, and higly polarized. Operating a high-energy photon source that achieves all three of these ideal properties presents a number of challenges, particularly related to the type and quality of the crystal. The crystal must be as thin as possbile to reduce the effects of multiple scattering of the electron beam, but thick enough to produce sufficient photon intensity given the limits of the electron beam current imposed by heating and radiation damage to the crystal. The crystal must be a nearly perfect single crystal with good thermal conductivity made from a material with low atomic number to reduce the background from the incoherent bremsstrahlung process that is always present. Incoherent bremsstrahlung produces anlow-energy background that is neither monochromatic nor polarized, and degrades the properties of the coherernt bremsstrahlung beam. This combination of proprties makes signle-crystal diamond a unique choice for a high-energy coherent bremsstrahlung source.

## references ##
[1] G. Diambrini-Palazzi, "High-Energy Bremsstrahlung and Electron Pair Production in Thin Crystals", Revs. Mod. Phys. vol 40 (1968) p. 611.
[2] U. Timm, "Coherent bremsstrahlung of electrons in crystals", Fortschr. Phys. vol. 17 (1969) p. 765.
[3] "Coherent Radiation Sources", edited by A. W. Såenz and H. Uberall, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1985.
[4] W. Kaune, G. Miller, W. Oliver, R.W. Williams, and K.K. Young, "Inclusive cross sections for pion and proton production by photons using collimated coherent bremsstrahlung", Phys. Rev. vol 11-3 (1975) pp. 478-494.
[5] H. Bilokon, G. Bologna, F. Celani, B. D'Ettorre Piazzoli, R. Falcioni, G. Mannocchi, and P. Picchi, "Coherent bremsstrahlung in crystals as a tool for producing high energy photon beams to be used in photoproduction experiments at CERN SPS", Nuclear Inst. and Meth. 204 (1983), pp. 299--310.
[6] G. Yang, R.T. Jones, F. Klein, K. Finkelstein, K. Livingston, “Rocking Curve Imaging for Diamond Radiator Crystal Selection”, Journal of Diamond & Related Materials 19 (2010) 719.
[7] K. Finkelstein, R.T. Jones, A. Pauling, D.C. Sagan, Z. Brown, and D S. Misra, “High Resolution, Monochromatic X-ray Topography Capability at CHESS”, Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Synchrotron Radiation Instrumentation (SRI-2015),  AIP Conf. Proc. 1741(2016) , 010001.
